# Incident: 2024-12-05 18-26-00 UTC

## Summary

Between the hour of 18:26 UTC and 18:35 UTC on Dec 5, 2024, users were unable to purchase pizzas due to an outage of the JWT Pizza Factory. This outage was triggered earlier as part of chaos testing.

The event was discovered by our Grafana monitoring system and the DevOps team was immediately alerted. The DevOps team quickly reviewed documentation to prepare a solution.

## Detection

This incident was detected when the "Pizza Failures" Grafana alert was triggered and Porter Schollenberger (our #1 DevOps engineer) was paged.

## Impact

Describe how the incident impacted internal and external users during the incident. Include how many support cases were raised.

**EXAMPLE**:

For 9 minutes between 18:26 UTC and 18:35 UTC on 12/05/24, our users were unable to make any purchases on our site.

This incident affected 2 customers (100% OF USERS), who experienced failures when purchasing pizzas.

## Timeline

Detail the incident timeline. We recommend using UTC to standardize for timezones.

Include any notable lead-up events, any starts of activity, the first known impact, and escalations. Note any decisions or changed made, and when the incident ended, along with any post-impact events of note.

**EXAMPLE**:

All times are UTC.

- _18:26_ - Failure was detected by Grafana monitoring and alert was sent
- _18:27_ - Alert was acknowledged by DevOps team
- _18:33_ - Fix was sent, began monitoring fix
- _18:35_ - Application confirmed to be working and issue resolved

## Response

After receiving a page at 18:26 UTC, Porter Schollenberger came online at 18:27 UTC and began diagnostics

# Root cause

Chaos testing caused a shutdown of the JWT Pizza Service

## Resolution

Through study of the JWT Pizza Service documentation, a request was sent to the factory through the CS329 auto grader to end the chaos and restore the factory

# Prevention

No previous incident we can recall relates to this issue

# Action items

1. Implement a secondary system for creating JWT Pizzas should the factory currently in use ever go out again
2. Train employees on JWT Pizza Factory functionality should any issue relating to such ever arise again.